#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass classicthesis
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language american
\language_package default
\inputencoding default
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 0
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine natbib_numerical
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
begingroup
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
let
\backslash
clearpage
\backslash
relax
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
let
\backslash
cleardoublepage
\backslash
relax
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
pdfbookmark[1]{Abstract}{Abstract}
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter*
Abstract
\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Of all your thesis, this part will be the most widely published and most
 read because it will be published in Dissertation Abstracts International.
 It is best written towards the end, but not at the very last minute because
 you will probably need several drafts.
 It should be a distillation of the thesis: a concise description of the
 problem(s) addressed, your method of solving it/them, your results and
 conclusions.
 An abstract must be self-contained.
 Usually they do not contain references.
 When a reference is necessary, its details should be included in the text
 of the abstract.
 Check the word limit.
 Remember: even though it appears at the beginning, an abstract is not an
 introduction.
 It is a résumé of your thesis.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This thesis is a work of research in the domain of Web Services and Web
 mashups, in particular the data flow and integration between the services.
 Mashup is a new application development approach that allows users to aggregate
 multiple Web services (e.g.
 Google Maps, Flickr, RSS feeds, etc..) to create a service for a new purpose
 and to combine and visualise the original data sources.
 The problem is that these services each have their own set of functionality
 and format for data handling.
 Creating a Web mashup is not a trival task and the development is time-consumin
g and is asking for a profound re-usable framework to handle the differences
 and strive for a better integration.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One of the important characteristics of the Web and also one of the most
 interesting challenges is certainly its heterogeneity.
 The analysis shows that this heterogeneity can be seen on data, processes,
 and even user interfaces.
 An implementation of a service is made where the data, fetched from the
 Yahoo Pipes Web service is integrated and visualised in a client-side mashup.
 The service is implemented in JavaScript and presented in a Web interface.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mashups are evolving toward services that are a mix of user interface and
 traditional application logic at it seems to be a big challenge to identify
 the components, the different data sources and to facilitate the development
 and use of the composition.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset VSpace vfill
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
pdfbookmark[1]{Zusammenfassung}{Zusammenfassung}
\end_layout

\end_inset

 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Chapter*
Samenvatting
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Deze thesis is een onderzoek in het domain van Web services and Web mashups,
 met name de data flow en integratie tussen de verschillende services.
 Mashup is een nieuwe aanpak voor de ontwikkeling van applicaties die aan
 de gebruiker toelaat om verschillende Web services (bijv.
 Google Maps, Flickr, RSS feeds, etc..) samen te voegen om zo een service
 te creëren for een nieuw doel en om de data bronnen te combineren en te
 visualiseren.
 Het probleem is echter dat deze services ieder hun eigen set van functionalitei
t bezitten en data op hun eigen manier verwerken.Het is geen triviale, maar
 een tijdsrovende taak om een Web mashup te ontwikkelen, waarbij de ontwikkeling
 vraagt om een degelijk en herbruikbaar framework, om zo te streven naar
 een betere integratie en de verschillen tussen de services op een makkelijke
 manier te overbruggen.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Een van de belangrijkste eigenschappen van het Web en ook een van de meest
 interessante uitdagingen is zeker de heterogeniteit van het Web.
 De analyse toont aan dat deze heterogeniteit zichtbaar is in de data, de
 processen en zelf in de user interface.
 Een implementatie van een Web Service werd gemaakt waar de data werd gehaald
 bij de Yahoo Pipes Web Service en geïntegreerd werd in een client-side
 mashup.
 De service is geïmplementeerd in JavaSCript en wordt gepresenteerd in een
 Web interface.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mashups evolueren continue naar services die een mix zijn van gebruikersinterfac
e, traditionele applicatielogica en het blijkt een grote uitdaging om de
 verschillende componenten te identificeren and om de ontwikkeling en het
 gebruik van de compositie te vergemakkelijken.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset VSpace vfill
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset ERT
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout


\backslash
endgroup
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
