#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass classicthesis
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language american
\language_package default
\inputencoding default
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 0
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine natbib_numerical
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Introduction
\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
What is the topic and why is it important? State the problem(s) as simply
 as you can.
 Remember that you have been working on this project for a few years, so
 you will be very close to it.
 Try to step back mentally and take a broader view of the problem.
 How does it fit into the broader world of your discipline? Especially in
 the introduction, do not overestimate the reader's familiarity with your
 topic.
 You are writing for researchers in the general area, but not all of them
 need be specialists in your particular topic.
 It may help to imagine such a person---think of some researcher whom you
 might have met at a conference for your subject, but who was working in
 a different area.
 S/he is intelligent, has the same general background, but knows little
 of the literature or tricks that apply to your particular topic.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
The introduction should be interesting.
 If you bore the reader here, then you are unlikely to revive his/her interest
 in the materials and methods section.
 For the first paragraph or two, tradition permits prose that is less dry
 than the scientific norm.
 If want to wax lyrical about your topic, here is the place to do it.
 Try to make the reader want to read the heavy bundle that has arrived uninvited
 on his/her desk.
 Go to the library and read several thesis introductions.
 Did any make you want to read on? Which ones were boring?
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
This section might go through several drafts to make it read well and logically,
 while keeping it short.
 For this section, I think that it is a good idea to ask someone who is
 not a specialist to read it and to comment.
 Is it an adequate introduction? Is it easy to follow? There is an argument
 for writing this section---or least making a major revision of it---towards
 the end of the thesis writing.
 Your introduction should tell where the thesis is going, and this may become
 clearer during the writing.
\end_layout

\end_inset

 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Problem statement
\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
as simple and clear as possible: understanded by the audience, problems,
 preview, survey, area of study, I've looked to the following problem
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsubsection
Javascript in Visualisation libraries
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It seems that there is not much support for JSON or input of data for visualisat
ion libraries.
 Google has a good way for inserting data in their charts, trough Google
 Docs, wich works fine with Google Chart.
 But like we are used to, it protects it's market by recommending their
 own apps.
 So the possibilities for example are to use a Google document, to which
 a chart can be coupled, so the spreadsheet is used as database.
 Another option is to load a JSON object.
 This is more complicated.
 In fact it a more simple thing because the a json object can be very handy
 and easily managed.
 It has many advantages, which I explain in an other section about JSON
 
\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
reffer to other section/ write more in detail about json
\end_layout

\end_inset

On one hand it seems to be easy to insert the JSON data for using with Google
 chart.
 But that's the trick; the data needs to be in a specific format to be supported.
 Otherwise it won't work.
 So eventually you allready have to know the exact data structure from the
 beginning to use it.
 But can your source work with it or is a conversion necessary.
 Here my library forms a coupling between the data.
 The original data can be any JSON object and the library will convert it
 into the right JSON object which can be used for the visualisation.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Sometimes users want just more than visualising their data.
 Or not all the data inserted is necessary or comparision of data is wanted.
 The user wants for example select a subset of the data or compare different
 'versions' of data.
 In the library this functionality is forseen; it is possible to select
 the source data, make subsets of data and compare different data with each
 other.
 By this I mean for example data from two different times, which then can
 be compared to highlight differences or similarities.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The access to data in Javascript.Visualisations need a lot of data.
 But how can we transfer this data in an easy way into Javascript without
 doing it manually.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Why is it important
\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
area of study
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This is about data and the flow of data.
 It's also about usability.
 Some kind of layer in between to technologies.
 I need to connect the dots.
 In Javascripting you can write libraries.
 What can you do with JavaScript? It a language for scripting and developing
 web applications.
 So users can write code and perform tasks more easily or have tasks automated.
 One type of libraries are visualisation libraries, by which the user can
 create charts, plots, geomaps and all others kinds of interesting visualisation
s.
 Visualisation is a widely and quite vage description.
 I shall explain it some more in detail.
 Mostly it is used when users have some kind of data that they want to represent
 in a different way.
 An important thing in developing applications is that data and visualisation
 should be two different things and also be handled with seperatly.
 It's not a good solution to bind a certain type of visualisation to the
 data.
 If you then want to have another view, another font or color for example,
 it's hard to change it.
 When you seperate things, the display of the information can be modified
 and choosen freely.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So in the first part you have the data, which can contain any type of data:
 text, numbers, relationships, etc..
 The size of the data also matters for the processing quality and speed.
 Large amounts of data are more difficult to handle and take more time,
 which can decrease a good user experience, for example if one has to wait
 to long for results.
 If the visualisation is added up with that, the time increases even more.
 That's a part why performance is important, the performance of the code.
 This means performance of several parts: querying data, updating data,
 creating new data structures and data views.
 This last part is in general what a visualisation library in Javascript
 is doing; it takes a set of data and creates a 'view' on this data in the
 form of a table, a chart or something else.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Let me now explain where the difficult part comes in this problem: where
 do we get the data? Mostly data is stored in databases of all sorts, online
 or offline.
 The data can be already provided in some sort of form or it can be necessary
 that the data still needs to be accquired.
 So you have two parts in the origin of the data: one, the creation of data
 and two, the handling/usage of the data.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The source for your data can be retrieved for example from the internet.
 That's were Yahoo Pipes comes in.
 It's a very handy tool to get data from the internet in all forms; web
 content, rss feed items, geolocations, csv-files.
 It is clear that the possibilities are endless, all kinds of data can be
 retrieved from the web.
 In first instance, Yahoo Pipes seems to be used for aggregating or manipulating
 RSS feeds.
 One could think of mainly text and news feeds, but it can reach further
 than that.
\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Write some more here about RSS, what it is used for.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
CSV files with financial data, a lot of numbers etc..or even XML files containing
 a structured way of data with several caracteristics, maplocations, gps-coordin
ates..There are no limits on the data you can provide.
 This is a very interesting thing, but which makes everything also a lot
 more complex.
 So the input should be handled with care and parsed correctly.
 Yahoo Pipes provides a lot of good things for this.
 It has some nice functionality to handle the data correctly.
 The user than can design it's own mashup or output what they want to do
 with it.
 For example different views, filters etc can be applied on the data.
 It a little like a database where the user can query things etc..Yahoo Pipes
 is a data processor for the web.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So here's step two.
 Now that we have collected the data, what can we do with it? Like a already
 previously mentioned, Yahoo Pipes can manipulate and filter the data, even
 based on user inputs.
 So you can either just collect data in a central place of go a step further
 by manipulating.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
Freewriting on introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Here I want to talk about my project.
 I can call it my project, in the meaning that it has become part of myself.
 I procrastinated on it for a long time.
 It took me 3 years in fact to complete it.
 Not that I worked for 3 years.
 Most of the time has been gone doing nothing, changing subject, circumstances
 that I thought were not good.
 But it was only until recently that I got started.
 they say better late than never.
 And that is what my mission was.
 This thesis, called 'bachelorproef' is more than just a test for getting
 my bachelor degree in Computer Science.
 On this moment in time it was the greatest challenge that ever came across
 my path.
 Why it took me so long? I don't know.
 The most lessons are learned the hard way.
 During the time this work had a large mental weight on myself.
 Was I not good enough to complete it, would I ever complete it? My self-esteem
 and capabilities were very low I said myself for a long time.
 Until recently i noticed that change was necessary.
 I had to complete this work.
 Maybe it's some test of life for me, to see if I am capable of completing
 things.
 Things that in the first place I thought were easy and would work out quite
 easy.
 But it was different, a lot different.
 Things that are worth having, don't come easy.
 And I wanted my bachelor degree, so I needed to complete this final task.
 And that's how this thesis came to life.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
First I had an other subject for my thesis: RFID, which means 'Radio Frequency
 Identification Protocol'.
 I did some research on the topic.
 I searched the internet and the University library for information, a lot
 of information.
 A lot of articles I found on the topic.
 I did some reading and searching for solutions, but never came very far.
 After that I got the message that my supportor for this thesis quit working
 at EDM, the research center.
 So I was a little left behind, also my fault.
 What I'm talking about now dates from the year after the initial assignment.
 I made a lot of excuses and procrastinated a lot, in the end leading to
 no result.
 And a lot of mental pain.
 It was heavy, everytime I realised the thesis was waiting for me to get
 my hands on.
 But the time never came.
 Or I neglected the work, or I said it would all be fine in the end, or
 I did some little work and gave up, or I didn't do anything and said to
 myself that I was not capable, finally there were no results.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Until recently, which is about 2 months ago when I came to the realisation
 that I was wasting all the work I did before to get here.
 I am in my tirth year of study and more than 5 years of higher education,
 depending on one assignment.
 I have to complete this.
 A degree is so important in life.
 They say sometimes it's not everything, sometimes that it is everything.
 I not really have figured that out yet, what it means for me.
 I think time will tell what the impact is.
 But for now it matters that I get these things done and close a chapter
 of my life.
 A chapter that has been way to long and now is necessary to finish.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
So I got to work, more work than ever.
 I have the general habit of thinking a lot and by that I mean really a
 lot.
 Sometimes just too much.
 Than my thinking starts to work against me.
 But I'm working on it to keep things right and in control.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
That brings my in the present, where I tackeled the problem.
 I rather like the word 'challenge', looked at the circumstances and also
 my state of mind.
 Problems are negative.
 Challenges sound possible and achieveable.
 And that's were the assignement came in: 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Hacking and Mashing with Yahoo Pipes: Onto a new way of visualizing data.
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 And so my first draft is a written fact.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Fit into the broader world of computer science
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Organization
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A lot of reading and research.
 As a story troughout the text.
 From previous work untill the conclusion.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Structure
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Based on an thesis template.
 And also looked to other thesisses and bachelortests.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Customization
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Issues
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Writing text is not easy.
 Handling with several problems about implementation.
 Making choises.
 Generalization/details.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Future Work
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Adding more functionality to the library.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Beyond a thesis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
License/copyright
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
