#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass classicthesis
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language american
\language_package default
\inputencoding default
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 0
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine natbib_numerical
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 2
\tocdepth 2
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Chapter
Previous work 
\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Where did the problem come from? What is already known about this problem?
 What other methods have been tried to solve it? Ideally, you will already
 have much of the hard work done, if you have been keeping up with the literatur
e as you vowed to do three years ago, and if you have made notes about important
 papers over the years.
 If you have summarised those papers, then you have some good starting points
 for the review.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
If you didn't keep your literature notes up to date, you can still do something
 useful: pass on the following advice to any beginning PhD students in your
 lab and tell them how useful this would have been to you.
 When you start reading about a topic, you should open a spread sheet file,
 or at least a word processor file, for your literature review.
 Of course you write down the title, authors, year, volume and pages.
 But you also write a summary (anything from a couple of sentences to a
 couple of pages, depending on the relevance).
 In other columns of the spread sheet, you can add key words (your own and
 theirs) and comments about its importance, relevance to you and its quality.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
How many papers? How relevant do they have to be before you include them?
 Well, that is a matter of judgement.
 On the order of a hundred is reasonable, but it will depend on the field.
 You are the world expert on the (narrow) topic of your thesis: you must
 demonstrate this.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
A political point: make sure that you do not omit relevant papers by researchers
 who are like to be your examiners, or by potential employers to whom you
 might be sending the thesis in the next year or two.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Origin of the problem
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Richness and weakness of web service mashups.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Thus, we identify the behaviors and characteristics of general Mashup applicatio
ns and analyze the tools with respect to the data integration aspect.
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "DiLorenzo:2009:DIM:1558334.1558343"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Where did the problem come from? Other methods to try to solve the problem
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are a lot of visualisation libraries available in JavaScript.
 But it seems that there is not that much support for complex data.
 Mostly it is necessary to add the data manually or hard coded.
 Some libraries have improved support, like Google Chart.
 But it is not always abstract or generaly usable.
 For example the Google Chart API supports Google Docs as data source.
 This is a good improvement, altough the data format can only be used by
 the Google visualisation library.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
One of the goals of Web 2.0 is to make it easy to create, use, describe,
 share, and reuse resources on the Web.
 To achieve that, technologies have flourished around this concept (e.g.,
 blogs, social networks).
 The capabilities of Web 2.0 are further enhanced by many service providers
 who expose their applications in two ways: one is to expose application
 functionalities via Web APIs such as Google Map1, Amazon.com, or Youtube2,
 the other is to expose data feeds such as RSS and ATOM.
 This opened up new and exciting possibilities for service consumers and
 providers as it enabled the notion of using these services3 as “ingredients”
 that can be mixed-and-matched to create new applications.
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand citep
key "sigmod:2009"

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Description of the previous work
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
the dimensions of analysis, and describes different Mashup tools according
 to the considered dimensions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Since the origin of the research assignment in 2009, there was a serious
 lack in support for external data.
 Everything needed to be done by hand.
 By now already some libraries have involved, like Google Chart.
 Also the libarry 'd3.js' is the succesor of another library; Protovis.
 It has now better functionality.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Something can be said about JSON, what the technology has change in the
 field of data communication.
 A general data format, which is language independent.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
The use and the evolvement of data mash-ups like Yahoo Pipes, which gave
 more widespread access to data and changed the experience of the web totally.
 It transformed the web by making in fact every element on the web accessable
 to use as data element.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Work from other people who were facing the same problem or similar things
 to tackle.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
Things that have been investigated in the past.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Review of the previous work 
\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Some sort of conclusion, what I think about the previous work done.
 How relevant do they have to be before you include them? Well, that is
 a matter of judgement.
 On the order of a hundred is reasonable, but it will depend on the field.
 You are the world expert on the (narrow) topic of your thesis: you must
 demonstrate this.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Why do I have included some previous work or not.
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In the meantime, troughout the years there have been some improvements.
 But there is still some work to do.
 In general, the libraries themself have evolved to create more beautiful
 visualisation.
 But still in the core essence; the availibility of the data so it can be
 used easily, is still far away.
 There is better support, thanks to JSON which gets supported more and more
 by libraries.
 But the problem is not yet abstract enough.
 Yahoo Pipes creates a good abstraction layer by making the data available
 in a uniform format; JSON.
 But it has to be taken one step further.
 A better integration into JavaScript is necessary, a more general data
 format which can be used by not just one visualisation library.
 When the data is handled in a general way, as a javascript object, it can
 be integrated more easily into other visualisation libraries.
 This way the choice of the visualisation libary is free and data can be
 handled easily 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
